# RecSplit in Rust
Implementation of [RecSplit](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.06416)---a [minimal perfect hash function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_hash_function#Minimal_perfect_hash_function)---in Rust... and more.



| ⚠️   | WIP! |
| --- | ---- |


## Note
This repo is in no way affiliated nor endorsed by the authors of RecSplit.


## C++ Bindings
This crate includes C++ bindings for SrsMPHF generated by [cxx](https://cxx.rs/index.html).
These can be generated using 
- `cxxbridge .\src\cpp_bindings.rs -o srs_mphf.hpp` and
- `cxxbridge .\src\cpp_bindings.rs -o srs_mphf.cpp`

and need to be linked to `target/release/libsrs.a` generated by `cargo build --release`

`cxxbridge` can be installed using `cargo install cxxbridge`


Afterward, SrsMphf can be used the following:
```c++
#include "srs_mphf.hpp"
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
#include <string>

int main()
{
    std::vector<std::string> vec{"hello", "world"};

    auto srs = srs::constructSrsMphf(vec, 0.001);

    std::cout << "size: " << srs->getBits() << ", bit per key: " << srs->getBitsPerKey() << ", hashes: " 
        << srs->hash("hello") << " " << srs->hash("world") << std::endl;
}

```

## Profiling
### Flamegraph
To use [cargo flamegraph](https://github.com/flamegraph-rs/flamegraph) on windows, use [dtrace_blondie](https://github.com/nico-abram/blondie/) instead of windows dtrace.
Therefore install blondie with `cargo install blondie` and set the `DTRACE` env var to the path to blondie:
`$env:DTRACE = "dtrace_blondie"`.
Then you can run flamegraph as usual, eg.g with `cargo flamegraph --unit-test -- <test_name>` in a admin terminal or with sudo.

#### Recursive Functions
The standart flamegraph for recursive functions is not very helpful because for every call, the stack gets larger and larger and thus these calls do not get unified in the flamegraph.
The following postprocesssing script removes recursive stack entries to get a more meaningful flamegraph:
`cargo flamegraph --post-process "wsl -e sed -re 's/(.*);(.*my_recrusive_function.*)/\2/g'" --unit-test -- <test_name>`

Replace `my_recursive_funtion` with your recursive function and `<test_name>` with your test to run on.

### asm view
To view the generated assembly, make sure a binary gets compiles (e.g. main) that includes the wanted code.
Then you can use `cargo-asm` to run `cargo asm --rust <function name>` to show the assembly of that function

Rebuilding the desired binary and/or cleaning the release directory may help if a function is not found. It also may be inlined aggressively. Search for the binary entry function.

## Graph generation
To generate a graph, run the according test using
`cargo test --release --all-features -- --ignored --nocapture <test_name>`